## Issues and flags

More than *50 issues and flags* have been created to deal with common
data quality problems. The following *long* section compiles all of them
and offers a more clear description of each one. This section is
intended to serve as a placeholder until more formal documentation can
be written.

### Geospatial Issues

'''''

*Zero coordinate* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ZERO_COORDINATE[example] + 
Coordinates are exactly 0/0, often indicating an actual null coordinate.*Terms*:
dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude

*Country coordinate mismatch* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COUNTRY_COORDINATE_MISMATCH[example] + 
The interpreted occurrence coordinates fall outside of the indicated
country.*Terms*: dwc:countryCode, dwc:country, dwc:decimalLatitude,
dwc:decimalLongitude

*Coordinate out of range* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_OUT_OF_RANGE[example] + 
The supplied coordinates lie outside of the range for decimal lat/lon values
(-90/90, -180/180).*Terms*: dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude,
dwc:verbatimCoordinates, dwc:verbatimLatitude, dwc:verbatimLongitude

These 4 issues are removed by default when *including coordinates* and
*not* clicking the check box:

.Geospatial issues
|===
|Flag name | Definition

|*Zero coordinate*
|Coordinates are exactly 0/0, often indicating an actual null coordinate. https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ZERO_COORDINATE[example] +
_dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude_

|*Country coordinate mismatch*
|The interpreted occurrence coordinates fall outside of the indicated
country. https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COUNTRY_COORDINATE_MISMATCH[example] +
_dwc:countryCode, dwc:country, dwc:decimalLatitude_

|*Coordinate invalid* 
|A coordinate value is given in some form, but GBIF is unable to interpret
it. Possible reasons include, i.a., coordinates that fall out of range
(larger/lower than 90/-90 or 180/-180, depending) or text values that
cannot be interpreted.
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_INVALID[example] +
_dwc:decimalLatitude,dwc:decimalLongitude, dwc:verbatimCoordinates, dwc:verbatimLatitude,dwc:verbatimLongitude_




*Geodetic datum assumed WGS84* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=GEODETIC_DATUM_ASSUMED_WGS84[example] + 
If the datum is null, data interpretation assumes the record coordinates
are in WGS84.*Terms*: dwc:geodeticDatum

*Geodetic datum invalid* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=GEODETIC_DATUM_INVALID[example] + 
The geodetic datum could not be interpreted, because the supplied term
cannot be matched against the vocabulary of known values.*Terms*:
dwc:geodeticDatum

*Country mismatch* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COUNTRY_MISMATCH[example]Interpreted
Country and Country code contradict each other.*Terms*: dwc:countryCode,
dwc:country

*Country derived from coordinates* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COUNTRY_DERIVED_FROM_COORDINATES[example]If
the country and country code are not supplied or cannot be matched to
known values, data interpretation derives their content from the decimal
coordinates through a https://github.com/gbif/geocode[lookup
service].*Terms*: dwc:countryCode, dwc:country, dwc:decimalLatitude,
dwc:decimalLongitude

*Country invalid* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COUNTRY_INVALID[example]The
country or countryCode given cannot be matched to the vocabulary for
country names.*Terms*: dwc:country

*Continent invalid* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=CONTINENT_INVALID[example]The
continent given cannot be matched to the vocabulary for continent
names**Terms**: dwc:continent

*Coordinate rounded* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_ROUNDED[example]In
the data interpretation the original coordinates are rounded to 6
decimals (~1m precision).*Terms*: dwc:decimalLatitude,
dwc:decimalLongitude

*Coordinate reprojected* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_REPROJECTED[example]The
original coordinates were successfully reprojected from a different
geodetic datum to WGS84.*Terms*: dwc:geodeticDatum

*Coordinate reprojection suspicious* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_REPROJECTION_SUSPICIOUS[example]Indicates
successful coordinate reprojection according to provided datum, but
which results in a datum shift larger than 0.1 decimal degrees.*Terms*:
dwc:geodeticDatum, dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude

*Coordinate reprojection failed* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_REPROJECTION_FAILED[example]The
given decimal latitude and longitude could not be reprojected to WGS84
based on the provided datum.*Terms*: dwc:geodeticDatum,
dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude

*Coordinate uncertainty meters invalid* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_UNCERTAINTY_METERS_INVALID[example]The
value given for Coordinate uncertainty in meters, indicating the radius
of uncertainty around the given decimal coordinates, is not a valid
number, or lies outside a plausible range.*Terms*:
dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters

*Coordinate precision invalid* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COORDINATE_PRECISION_INVALID[example]Indicates
an invalid or very unlikely coordinates precision. The value is not a
decimal number as expected, or it has an unusually low or high for a
margin of uncertainty.*Terms*: dwc:coordinatePrecision

*Presumed negated longitude* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=PRESUMED_NEGATED_LONGITUDE[example]The
supplied longitude value places the coordinates outside of the indicated
country. Negating the longitude value would result in a country
match.*Terms*: dwc:decimalLongitude

*Presumed negated latitude* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=PRESUMED_NEGATED_LATITUDE[example]The
supplied latitude value places the coordinates outside of the indicated
country. Negating the latitude value would result in a country
match.*Terms*: dwc:decimalLatitude

*Presumed swapped coordinate* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=PRESUMED_SWAPPED_COORDINATE[example]Coordinates
seem to be swapped when testing against the interpreted country.*Terms*:
dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimalLongitude, dwc:country

*Depth min max swapped* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=DEPTH_MIN_MAX_SWAPPED[example]The
values for minimum and maximum depth appear to the swapped.*Terms*:
dwc:minimumDepthInMeters, dwc:maximumDepthInMeters

*Depth non numeric* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=DEPTH_NON_NUMERIC[example]The
values for minimum and maximum depth are non-numeric values and cannot
be interpreted.*Terms*: dwc:minimumDepthInMeters,
dwc:maximumDepthInMeters

*Depth unlikely* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=DEPTH_UNLIKELY[example]The
values for minimum and maximum depth are negative or higher than 11000
(Mariana Trench depth in meters).*Terms*: dwc:minimumDepthInMeters,
dwc:maximumDepthInMeters

*Depth not metric* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=DEPTH_NOT_METRIC[example]Set
if supplied depth is not given in the metric system, for example using
feet instead of meters.*Terms*: dwc:minimumDepthInMeters,
dwc:maximumDepthInMeters

*Elevation non numeric* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ELEVATION_NON_NUMERIC[example]The
values for minimum and maximum elevation are non-numeric values and
cannot be interpreted.*Terms*: dwc:minimumElevationInMeters,
dwc:maximumElevationMeters

*Elevation min max swapped* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ELEVATION_MIN_MAX_SWAPPED[example]The
values for minimum and maximum elevation appear to the swapped.*Terms*:
dwc:minimumElevationInMeters, dwc:maximumElevationInMeters

*Elevation not metric* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ELEVATION_NOT_METRIC[example]Set
if supplied elevation is not given in the metric system, for example
using feet instead of meters.*Terms*: dwc:minimumElevationInMeters,
dwc:maximumElevationInMeters

*Elevation unlikely* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=ELEVATION_UNLIKELY[example]The
values for minimum and maximum elevation are above the troposphere
(17000 m) or below Mariana Trench (11000 m).*Terms*:
dwc:minimumElevationInMeters, dwc:maximumElevationInMeters

*Continent country mismatch* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=CONTINENT_COUNTRY_MISMATCH[example]The
interpreted continent and country do not match up.*Terms*:
dwc:continent, dwc:countryCode, dwc:country

*Continent derived from coordinates* (geospatial)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=CONTINENT_DERIVED_FROM_COORDINATES[example]If
no value is supplied for the continent or if the values cannot be
matched against a known vocabulary, data interpretation derives the
continent from the decimal coordinates.*Terms*: dwc:continent,
dwc:decimalLatitude, dwc:decimal Longitude


|===

'''''

*Taxon match higherrank* (taxonomic)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=TAXON_MATCH_HIGHERRANK[example]The
record can be matched to the GBIF taxonomic backbone at a higher rank,
but not with the scientific name given.*Terms*:
dwc:scientificName,dwc:kingdom,dwc:phylum, dwc:class, dwc:order,
dwc:family, dwc:genus, dwc:subgenus, dwc:specificEpithet,
dwc:infraspecificEpithet, dwc:taxonRank Reasons include:- The name is
new, and not available in the taxonomic datasets yet- The name is
missing in the backbone's taxonomic sources for others reasons-
Formatting or spelling of the scientific name caused interpretation
errors

*Taxon match none* (taxonomic)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=TAXON_MATCH_NONE[example]Matching
to the taxonomic backbone cannot be done cause there was no match at all
or several matches with too little information to keep them apart
(homonyms).*Terms*: dwc:scientificName,dwc:kingdom,dwc:phylum,
dwc:class, dwc:order, dwc:family, dwc:genus, dwc:subgenus,
dwc:specificEpithet, dwc:infraspecificEpithet, dwc:taxonRank

*Taxon match fuzzy* (taxonomic)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=TAXON_MATCH_FUZZY[example]Matching
to the taxonomic backbone can only be done using a fuzzy, non exact
match.*Terms*: dwc:scientificName,dwc:kingdom,dwc:phylum, dwc:class,
dwc:order, dwc:family, dwc:genus, dwc:subgenus, dwc:specificEpithet,
dwc:infraspecificEpithet, dwc:taxonRank

'''''

*Recorded date invalid* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=RECORDED_DATE_INVALID[example]The
recording date given cannot be intrepreted because is invalid.*Terms*:
dwc:eventDate, dwc:year, dwc:month, dwc:day Reasons include:- A
non-existing date (e.g "1995-04-34")- Missing date parts (e.g. Event
date without year).- The date format does not follow the ISO 8601
standard (YYYY-MM-DD)

*Recorded date mismatch* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=RECORDED_DATE_MISMATCH[example]The
recording date specified as the eventDate string and the individual
year, month, day are contradicting.*Terms*: dwc:eventDate, dwc:year,
dwc:month, dwc:day

*Identified date unlikely* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=IDENTIFIED_DATE_UNLIKELY[example]The
identification date is in the future or before Linnean times
(1700).*Terms*: dwc:dateIdentified

*Recorded Date Unlikely* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=RECORDED_DATE_UNLIKELY[example]The
recording date is highly unlikely, falling either into the future or
representing a very old date before 1600 that predates modern
taxonomy.*Terms*: dwc:eventDate, dwc:year, dwc:month, dwc:day

*Multimedia date invalid* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=MULTIMEDIA_DATE_INVALID[example]The
creation date given cannot be intrepreted because is invalid.*Terms*:
dc:created Reasons include:- A non-existing date (e.g "1995-04-34")-
Missing date parts (e.g. Event date without year).- The date format does
not follow the ISO 8601 standard (YYYY-MM-DD)

*Identified date invalid* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=IDENTIFIED_DATE_INVALID[example]The
identification date given cannot be intrepreted because is
invalid.*Terms*: dwc:dateIdentifiedReasons include:- A non-existing date
(e.g "1995-04-34")- Missing date parts (e.g. without year).- The date
format does not follow the ISO 8601 standard (YYYY-MM-DD)

*Modified date invalid* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=MODIFIED_DATE_INVALID[example]A
(partial) invalid modified date is given.*Terms*: dc:modifiedReasons
include:- A non-existing date (e.g "1995-04-34")- Missing date parts
(e.g. without year).- The date format does not follow the ISO 8601
standard (YYYY-MM-DD)

*Modified date unlikely* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=MODIFIED_DATE_UNLIKELY[example]The
modified date given is in the future or predates unix time
(1970).*Terms*: dc:modified

*Georeferenced date invalid* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=GEOREFERENCED_DATE_INVALID[example]The
georeference date given cannot be intrepreted because it is invalid.
**Terms**: dwc:georeferencedDate

Reasons include:

* A non-existing date (e.g "1995-04-34").
* Missing date parts (e.g. without year).
* The date format does not follow the ISO 8601 standard (YYYY-MM-DD)

*Georeferenced date unlikely* (date)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=GEOREFERENCED_DATE_UNLIKELY[example]The
georeference date given is in the future or before Linnean times
(1700).*Terms*: dwc:georeferencedDate

'''''

*Basis of record invalid* (vocabulary)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=BASIS_OF_RECORD_INVALID[example]The
given basis of record is impossible to interpret or very different from
the recommended vocabulary:
http://rs.gbif.org/vocabulary/dwc/basis_of_record.xml[http://rs.gbif.org/vocabulary/dwc/basis_of_record.xml]**Terms**:
dwc:basisOfRecord

*Type status invalid* (vocabulary)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=TYPE_STATUS_INVALID[example]The
given type status is impossible to interpret or very different from the
recommended vocabulary:
https://rs.gbif.org/vocabulary/gbif/type_status.xml[https://rs.gbif.org/vocabulary/gbif/type_status.xml]**Terms**:
dwc:typeStatus

*Occurrence status unparsable* (vocabulary)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=OCCURRENCE_STATUS_UNPARSABLE[example]The
given occurenceStatus value cannot be interpreted; it does not match any
of the known (vocabulary) values that indicate the presence or absence
of a species at collection or observation event.*Terms*:
dwc:occurrenceStatus

'''''

*Ambiguous institution* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=AMBIGUOUS_INSTITUTION[example]Multiple
institutions were found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl]
with the same level of confidence and it can't be determined which one
should be accepted. For example, there are several institutions with the
same code and country. See
https://www.gbif.org/faq?question=how-can-i-improve-the-matching-of-occurrence-records-with-grscicoll[this
FAQ] on how to avoid ambiguous matches.*Terms*: dwc:institutionCode,
dwc:institutionID

*Ambiguous collection* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=AMBIGUOUS_COLLECTION[example]Multiple
collections were found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] with
the same level of confidence and it can't be determined which one should
be accepted. For example, there are several collections belonging to the
same institution with the same code. See
https://www.gbif.org/faq?question=how-can-i-improve-the-matching-of-occurrence-records-with-grscicoll[this
FAQ] on how to avoid ambiguous matches.*Terms*: dwc:collectionCode,
dwc:collectionID

*Institution match none* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INSTITUTION_MATCH_NONE[example]No
macth was found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl]. Either the
entry doesn't exists in GRSciColl or it has a different code. Check
https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] and request update if
needed.*Terms*: dwc:institutionCode, dwc:institutionID

*Collection match none* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COLLECTION_MATCH_NONE[example]No
macth was found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl]. Either the
entry doesn't exists in GRSciColl or it has a different code. Check
https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] and request update if
needed.*Terms*: dwc:collectionCode, dwc:collectionID

*Institution match fuzzy* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INSTITUTION_MATCH_FUZZY[example]A
match was found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] but it was
matched fuzzily. To know more about why this has happened you can use
the https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#lookup[lookup API] to see
see the "reasons" returned in the response. A common case is when the
name is used instead of the code or the identifier. To avoid fuzzy
matches, publishers should use identifiers in additon to codes. More
details available in
https://www.gbif.org/faq?question=how-can-i-improve-the-matching-of-occurrence-records-with-grscicoll[this
FAQ].*Terms*: dwc:institutionCode, dwc:institutionID

*Collection match fuzzy* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=COLLECTION_MATCH_FUZZY[example]A
match was found in https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] but it was
matched fuzzily. To know more about why this has happened you can use
the https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#lookup[lookup API] to see
see the "reasons" returned in the response. A common case is when the
name is used instead of the code or the identifier. To avoid fuzzy
matches, publishers should use identifiers in additon to codes. More
details available in
https://www.gbif.org/faq?question=how-can-i-improve-the-matching-of-occurrence-records-with-grscicoll[this
FAQ].*Terms*: dwc:collectionCode, dwc:collectionID

*Institution collection mismatch* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INSTITUTION_COLLECTION_MISMATCH[example]At
least one possible collection match was found in
https://www.gbif.org/grscicoll[GRSciColl] but none of them belong to the
institution matched.*Terms*: dwc:collectionCode, dwc:collectionID,
dwc:institutionCode, dwc:institutionID

*Different owner institution* (GRSciColl)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=DIFFERENT_OWNER_INSTITUTION[example]The
institution doesn't match the owner institution.*Terms*:
dwc:ownerInstitutionCode, dwc:institutionCode, dwc:institutionID

'''''

*Individual count invalid* (individual count)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INDIVIDUAL_COUNT_INVALID[example]Individual
count value not parsable into a positive integer.*Terms*:
dwc:individualCount

*Individual count conflicts with occurrence status* (individual count)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INDIVIDUAL_COUNT_CONFLICTS_WITH_OCCURRENCE_STATUS[example]The
values given for the individual count and for the status of the
occurrence (present/absent) contradict each other (e.g. the count is 0
but the status says "present").*Terms*: dwc:individualCount,
dwc:occurrenceStatus

*Occurrence status inferred from individual count* (occurrence status)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=OCCURRENCE_STATUS_INFERRED_FROM_INDIVIDUAL_COUNT[example]The
present/absent status of the occurrence was inferred from the individual
count value because no status value was supplied explicitly. An
individual count of 0 is interpreted as status="absent", a value > 0 as
"present"*Terms*: dwc:individualCount, dwc:occurrenceStatus

*References URI invalid* (uri)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=REFERENCES_URI_INVALID[example]The
references URL cannot be resolved, and may be malformed or contain
invalid characters. If there is more than one URL, the values have to be
separated by a pipe symbol "|".*Terms*: dc:references

*Multimedia URI invalid* (uri)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=MULTIMEDIA_URI_INVALID[example]The
multimedia URL cannot be resolved, and may be malformed or contain
invalid characters. If there is more than one URL, the values have to be
separated by a pipe symbol "|".*Terms*: dwc:associatedMedia

*Interpretation error* (interpretation)
https://www.gbif.org/occurrence/search?issue=INTERPRETATION_ERROR[example]An
error occurred during interpretation, leaving the record interpretation
incomplete.*Terms*: GBIF interpretation
